.TH CANBUS_MONITOR 1 "April 2026" "1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
canbus_monitor \- Monitor and log CAN bus frames via SocketCAN
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B canbus_monitor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIinterface\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B canbus_monitor
opens a raw SocketCAN socket on \fIinterface\fR and captures all CAN frames,
writing them to rotating ASC-format log files compatible with CANalyzer and
the \fBcantools\fR Python library.
.PP
Kernel-level receive filters can be configured to reduce CPU load by discarding
unwanted frames before they are copied to user space.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIdir\fR
Directory for log files (default: \fB./canbus_logs\fR).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prefix " " \fIname\fR
Log file name prefix (default: interface name).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-max\-size " " \fIbytes\fR
Rotate the current log file when it reaches this size in bytes
(default: 52428800 = 50 MiB).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rotations " " \fIn\fR
Number of rotated log files to keep before deletion (default: 10).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fIms\fR
Socket receive timeout in milliseconds (default: 200).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filter " " \fIid:mask\fR
Add a kernel CAN receive filter.  Both \fIid\fR and \fImask\fR are
hexadecimal.  A frame passes if \fB(frame.id & mask) == (id & mask)\fR.
This option may be repeated up to 32 times.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-count " " \fIn\fR
Exit after receiving \fIn\fR frames.  0 means run indefinitely (default).
.TP
.B \-\-stats
Print per-ID statistics (frame count, byte count, DLC mean, inter-frame
interval mean and standard deviation) on exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print each received frame to stdout as it arrives.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.BR SIGINT ", " SIGTERM
Graceful shutdown: flush log buffers, optionally print statistics, and exit.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Trigger an immediate log rotation without terminating the process.
.SH LOG FORMAT
Log files use the ASC format (AUTOSAR/PEAK compatible subset):
.PP
.nf
date Tue Apr 28 17:00:00 2026
base hex  timestamps absolute
no internal events logged
   0.001234  1  1A0  Rx  d  4  01 02 03 04
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Monitor all frames on can0:
.PP
.nf
canbus_monitor can0
.fi
.PP
Log only frames matching ID 0x100 (exact match), keep 5 rotations:
.PP
.nf
canbus_monitor -f 100:7FF -r 5 -o /var/log/can can0
.fi
.PP
Capture 10000 frames and print statistics:
.PP
.nf
canbus_monitor -n 10000 --stats vcan0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR candump (1),
.BR cansend (1),
.BR ip (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Ahmad Rashed <ahmad.rashed93@gmail.com>
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.
